_pages/onboarding.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: "Onboarding"
permalink: /onboarding/
toc: true
toc_label: "Onboarding"
toc_icon: "cog"
---

## Welcome!

We're glad to have you on board working with us on a common goal. Please take a second to read through this post for an overview of what to expect and what we expect of you.

Please take some time to read our #rules and please follow them. 

This community is inclusive to everyone, full stop. In general the Golden Rule prevails here, just be good people.

## New Contributors

Now that you have been added to the contributors group you have full access to this discord server and a few other systems we use here. Keep topics on point and relative to the discussion. Any general or off topic conversations should be kept in the #general channel.

Remember that most of the server is public and viewable by the entire community at large. Keep the conversation appropriate and above board!

## Introduction Post

It is important to create connections and align interests as a community, building stronger connections. Please take a second to create an introduction post over in the #contributors-introduction channel. This will help us get to know you a bit and will help assign initial roles here in the server.

We have a template pinned to the channel over there for you to use, or simply use others as an example. 

## Roles

Speaking of roles, we use them heavily over here. Roles allow us to break users into sub-groups based on the users strengths and capabilities. A role is self assigned by the user for areas they feel comfortable working in, or are interested in getting into.

In the work flow of things the role can be called out in the chat easily with an @{ROLE}. For instance, lets say I am working on a new game that will use the blockchain for operation. This game will need multiple roles to complete. While I'm strong as a @developer, I lack the creative skills or design eye for web front end and logo design. I can ask for help from other disciplines by tagging that role. `Looking for help with my game idea, need @designer and @wg-website help please!` 

## Other Services
We utilize other 3rd party services to help in our productivity, and align our members on similar platforms. Please take some time and sign up to the various systems we use. Some of these require a moderator or core contributor to sign you up for an account or authorize your user.

**Trello**
Kanban type project tracking and task assignment. Use this to place active tasks and information for the working groups and projects you are working. The bot will truncate the feed over on Trello to the discord server so you can see movement on a specific task. 

There are a lot of ways to use the tools here, and we don't want to dictate how it is used to be productive. The only ask is that things stay consistent and productive. If there are improvement ideas please bring them up in #suggestions.

You can view all the trello boards here: <https://trello.com/theqrlcontributors>

Be sure to join any boards of working groups that might interest you!

---

**Nextcloud**
We utilize Nextcloud as the repository for files and content. You have been setup with an account over there and should have received a notification from the system. This server is view able to all contributors, however is not publicly view able. The server content is shareable and not considered private. We do ask that things stay internal until ready for public release.

The server has been setup with a master directory that everyone share. This directory contains a folder for each working group and role. Additionally we have locations for assets like logos and templates for specific type of content such as news releases and PR content.

**Github**
We use Github to host all code and related information. The great feature of Github is the versioning system and collaboration it allows developers. Please setup an account and associate your user name with <https://github.com/theqrl-community>

Not everyone is up to speed with the work flow over at Github, and the entry barrier can be steep. For those that want to join us on Github, I recommend you download <https://www.gitkraken.com/> to lower the bar. This 3rd party software provides a GUI interface to interface with the Github system.

Commit message:

Restructure onboarding document and decrease specificity to discord

_pages/onboarding.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: "Onboarding"
permalink: /onboarding/
toc: true
toc_label: "Onboarding"
toc_icon: "cog"
---

# Welcome!

We're happy to have you on board! 

## 1. Understand what it means to be a QRL Contributor!

By becoming a QRL Contributor, you're also by extension, a representative to the QRL and its overall brand to the world. The actions you've taken in the past, and the ones you take in the future, will impact people's impressions of QRL.

Understandably, this comes with a lot of responsibility! If you're more of a back-of-house type of person (developers and coders) - this wont concern you as much, but it's still important to take note of.

It's important to be familiar with our [code-of-conduct](/code-of-conduct).

As a QRL Contributors group you will also have a larger degree of access to information that is meant to be kept private from the public. It's important to keep it that way.

## 2. Understand The QRL Contributors structure 

Head over to [structure](/structure) to understand the value that roles and working groups play in the coordinated efforts of The QRL Contributors.

Once you understand this, ensure that you've been assigned a role and are part of a working group.

## 3. Double check that you're setup and understand each platform we use

We utilize other 3rd party services to help in our productivity, and align our members on similar platforms. Please take some time and sign up to the various systems we use. Some of these require a moderator or core contributor to sign you up for an account or authorize your user.

Try to pick a username that's the same or similar throughout these platforms.

### Trello

Kanban type project tracking and task assignment. Use this to place active tasks and information for the working groups and projects you are working. 

You can view all the trello boards here: <https://trello.com/theqrlcontributors>

### Nextcloud

We utilize Nextcloud as the repository for files and content. You have been setup with an account over there and should have received a notification from the system. This server is view able to all contributors, however is not publicly view able. The server content is shareable and not considered private. We do ask that things stay internal until ready for public release.

The server has been setup with a master directory that everyone share. This directory contains a folder for each working group and role. Additionally we have locations for assets like logos and templates for specific type of content such as news releases and PR content.

### Github

We use Github to host all code and related information. The great feature of Github is the versioning system and collaboration it allows developers. Please setup an account and associate your user name with <https://github.com/theqrl-community>

Not everyone is up to speed with the work flow over at Github, and the entry barrier can be steep. For those that want to join us on Github, I recommend you download <https://www.gitkraken.com/> to lower the bar. This 3rd party software provides a GUI interface to interface with the Github system.

### Email

QRL Contributors are assigned an email with firstname.lastinitial@theqrlcontributors.org so that there's a way to more officially represent QRL.
